Functions can also return a value.
This is a very important concept, as you will see, because it allows us to further our agenda, which
is to make sure that these entities are functions are able to do all the work they need to do and then
send out the result.
In fact, ultimately, that's exactly what functions are supposed to do.
They actually send out or create a result that we can use to do something else.
What do you mean by that is as follows.
I'm going to comment this out quick there, and let's create another function by the bottom here.
Give us some space.
OK, so like a bottom here, I'm going to say fun.
Let's call this calculate cat age like this.
So I'm going to pass here a parameter say cat age.
It's going to be an integer.
And voila!
So what we can do right away, you can see as well.
We just want to print a message here that says, fact this shouldn't be cat aging and say just age.
And then we're going to use that and multiply by seven, I think, to get cat age.
OK.
So if the cat is five, that means then we have to multiply it by seven to get the cat eight.
So that's that's just a number I picked.
OK.
All right.
So in this case, here you can say this cat is so I'm going to create a vowel here that says cat age
is equal to what age times seven like this?
And so here and just going to head past the cat age like that.
So if we call this when I say age is seven, let's go ahead and run can see the cat is 49 years old.
I'm going to say years old, cat is 49 years old.
OK, it's working perfectly.
But the one thing that this function here doesn't do is return the age of the cat.
It's not returning anything because all we do in here is actually we're printing this here, right?
The cat age years old and so forth.
So what we want to be able to do is just to return a value which is an integer.
And then I can do all sorts of things because imagine if I wanted to be able to.
I don't know.
When I get the cat's age, I want to subtract it by two and then multiply by 200 and then get the exponential
power divide by 400 and do all these calculations.
At this point, I cannot do it because of this function is not returning a value that I want.
Cat age, right?
It's just printing something out to a screen, which is fine.
So how do we return something from function?
Well, we return something from a function by saying, call in and say, in this case I'm saying, OK,
this cat age or calculate cat age is going to be a function that will have parameters, right?
But also, it's going to return an integer.
And you can see this is the syntax, say Colin, and then pass the type that we expect to return.
And you can see that we have an issue here because if you have it always going to say, well, he has
to return something right?
Because we said, here, that's the contract.
This has to return something.
So now I can get rid of this altogether and just go ahead and say, return like that.
Now, if I run this, you will see that nothing will show it ran fine.
There were no errors.
Nothing.
Why is it that nothing's showing?
Well, we call calculate age, but is returning an integer.
It's in memory.
We have that integer is just that is not showing here because we do not printing it.
So now I can just say print like that and enclose all of this just like we did before and we going to
see the result.
49.
And the beauty is because this is returning the age, which is an event that means I can do all sorts
of things with it.
I can create a vowel here called Cat Age and assign it to calculate age and past age and say This cat
is 12 at this point.
Right.
And now I can just use that cat again.
Cat age like this one?
We're going to get the result is 84 years old, and because we're printing, I can concatenate everything
right.
I can interpolate it.
I should say so I can say here this cat is cat age years old, right?
And while I know the beauty of these is that I can do all sorts of things with this value, this result,
right, is an integer.
If I want it, I can straight away and say, I want to multiply this by 10.
And if I run this, you can see now this card is 840 years old.
So there's advantages of getting the value or returning a value because it simplifies our lives and
makes it much easier for us to do other things with the results that we get.
So this is a very simplistic way of showcasing this return type that we have for this function.
But you can imagine if this function is in this very secretive and it does a lot of heavy lifting for
something we don't care whoever is going to call this cat age, they don't really necessarily want to
know how you calculate it.
You just want the result.
So this is how we would do it.
We have an E-Type that's been retained and we have to use the return key word in the eight time seven.
And of course, if we wanted, we could have.
Created a value say, foul.
Age is equal to that age, in fact, let's just change this vowel cut age and equal to age that we're
receiving times seven in this case and then return that that age that works as well.
But you can see, because Catling tries to be succinct, it says, just make this inline variable.
So click here you can see returns that.
The other thing is, in Scotland, there's usually more than one way to write the code right.
And so the idea is to make Scotland very succinct, so easy to read.
Compact.
It's in this case here, since we have just we were turning one value, we can actually make this way
easier to write or make it more succinct so I can get rid of these, can get rid of return altogether
and get rid of that braces that curly brace there and then it gets to equal.
So this is the same thing what we had before, we have a return.
So this is saying return these eight times seven, essentially saying whatever we get from this operation
here, we're going to set it to our calculate cat age, which indeed is supposed to hold an integer.
So this will work as well.
So we can see from what we had before to this.
It's very 16 to the point, and it's easy to read and maintain.
If we run again, we should see that the cat is a 140 years old because we added multiply it by 10 just
to prove a point.
And now it's more manageable, 84 years old.